---
layout : default
title: "usb-main"
tags: project js
---
# usb-main
[usb-main](https://github.com/nicohman/usb-main) is a tool, written in nodejs to easily create and maintain linux installation/live usbs. It will automatically download the relevant isos and burn them to configured interfaces, so that when you need to setup a new computer(or unbrick an old one), you've got the most recent version of the distro on command. You can also just do a one-time burn to a specific interface on command as well, which can be pretty handy on its own. You can install it pretty easily from [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/usb-main). The way that it downloads distros and checks to see if an updated version is available is pretty complicated, and depends on each distro. Here's a quick overview of how it gets each one:

- Manjaro i3
	- This is the particularily difficult one. It scrapes the community download page, and checks the url listed there. If it's different from the last one, it knows there's a new version to download, and formats the url into a direct download from [osdn.net](https://osdn.net).

- Ubuntu
	- This is pretty easy. It checks the md5sum of the daily iso, and if it's different, it downloads from the daily url, which stays the same.

- Solus Budgie
	- This one is implemented basically the same way as Ubuntu, but with one small-ish change: it downloads specifically from the RIT mirror. This means that, depending on your physical location, it might be worth it to manually change the mirror yourself.

- I'm happy to take requests and will accept pull requests for new distros!
