---
layout: default
title: "raven"
tags: project
---
# Raven

[Raven](https://github.com/nicohman/raven) is a rust-based theme manager for linux desktops. It works by defining multiple different 'options', like a polybar configuration, or a wallpaper, and then loads them into sequence when asked to. Even if you're not using a full-on DE, and instead opting for the more minimal WM like i3 or bspwm, you can still get a coherent theme that affects pretty much everything you do. There's a complete list of options available [here](https://github.com/nicohman/raven/blob/master/README.md). If you want to use it, you can install it at [crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/raventhemer) under the name raventhemer. The basic documentation on it is available on the github, but I'm going to go into some of it in more detail here. Until recently, it wasn't a particularly difficult project, but I recently implemented an online package system for people to share their themes, which is where it got more complicated. When you install a theme from [ThemeHub](https://demenses.net), it talks to a NodeJS server with a MongoDB database of themes and users. The code for the server is, of course, open source and available [here](https://github.com/nicohman/ravenserver). It uses a REST api to talk to the server with GET POST requests made via the [reqwest crate](https://crates.io/crates/reqwest). For the purposes of allowing for a third-party client or app to interact with a running ravenserver, I'll go over each endpoint.

- POST /themes/report
	- This endpoint reports a theme for a specific reason. Required body fields:
		- name: The name of the theme you're reporting
		- reason: The reason the theme is being reported
		- info: Any additional information about the report

- POST /themes/meta/:name
	- This endpoint updates the metadata of a specific theme. Required query fields:
		- token: A valid login token
		- typem: The metadata you're updating(either screen or description)
		- value: The value to update to

- POST /themes/users/delete/:user
	- This endpoint permanently deletes a user's account and all owned themes. Required query fields:
		- token: A valid login token
		- pass: The user's password for verification

- POST /themes/delete/:name
	- This endpoint permanently deletes a theme. Required query fields:
		- token: A valid login token

- GET /themes/repo/:name
	- This endpoint returns a tarball of the named theme for downloading.

- POST /themes/upload
	- This endpoint creates or updates a theme. Required query fields:
		- name: Theme name
		- token: A valid login token
	- It also requires a multipart tarball of the theme to be uploaded. The maximum size is 50mb.

- POST /themes/user/create
	- This endpoint creates a new user. Required query fields:
		- name: The new user name. Must be unique
		- pass: The password to sign up with

- GET /themes/user/login
	- This endpoint takes a name and password and, if authenticated correctly, returns a login token. Required query fields:
		- name: Username
		- pass: Password to authenticate with

You can, of course, configure raven by editing config.json in ~/.config/raven. Here's a quick overview of the config options:

- menu\_command: This is a string that will be executed as a command in bash when raven menu. It will be passed a new-line separated list of theme names via STDIN, and then expects a theme name from STDOUT. By default, this is a [rofi](https://github.com/DaveDavenport/rofi) command

- monitors: This is a number that determines how many instances of polybar to spawn when a theme is loaded - one for each monitor

- polybar: An array of strings, that in order give the names of polybar bars to be run for each monitor. Because of how polybar is set up, these have to be different for each bar/monitor

- last: This is just the last theme that you loaded with raven

- editing: And the theme you are currently editing with raven
